
A very simple setup.
---------------

This example is showing how to get started with the simplest possible setup.

  
1. **External Dependencies**

    Open RayCaster depends on a few external libraries, such as e.g Three.js to
    do part of its work. Three.js and a few other libraries needed are bundled 
    in the file *lib.depend.js*. To include the bundle add a  script tag like 
    below to your web page.

        <script src="js/lib.depend.js" >  </script>
 

2. **Include the Open RayCaster library**
    
    Next we include the the Open RayCaster library itself, using a new script tag.

        <script src="js/OpenRayCaster.js" >  </script>  

3. **Create a RayCaster instance**       
    
    After that we create a RayCaster instance.

        rayCaster = new RayCaster();
        

    RayCaster creates an HTML Canvas element, appends it to the end of the 
    HTML document, and renders its output to the new lement.

    <canvas id="rayCanvas" height="400" width="670" ></canvas>

    Since we still haven't loaded any data, and the default view is orthographic
    looking directly at the model from the front, we only see the x(blue) and y(green) axes 
    appear on the canvas. If you have good eyes, the z axis is seen as a little 
    red dot in the lower left corner. 
    
    Creating a new RayCaster instance without any additional options will
    automatically create a new canvas and append it to the end of the
    the HTML document body. 

    Typically we would want a Canvas element which has been already defined
    in the HTML document.  This is described in section
    [1.2 Simple setup with canvas](javascript:loadMarkDownDoc("1.2.canvasSetup.md");)

    
    ***Full code for this exercise.*** 

        <!DOCTYPE html> 
        <html> 
        <body> 
            <script src="js/lib.depend.js" >  </script>
            <script src="js/OpenRayCaster.js" >  </script>
            <script>
                rayCaster = new OpenRayCaster();
            </script>   
        </body> 
        </html> 

 

<script id="tutorialScript">
    var canvas_element = document.getElementById("rayCanvas");
    rayCaster = new OpenRayCaster({renderTarget:canvas_element});    

</script>